mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
simplify the following sum of three
fractions
the first fraction is equal to one
divided by
one plus log base a of the product bc
the second fraction is one divided by
one plus log base b of the product ac
and the third fraction is one divided by
one plus log base c of the product a b
a b and c are greater than zero but none
of them
is equal to one i thank rookvade for the
suggestion
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
[Music]
problem
recall the change of base formula log
base b
of u is equal to log base a of u
divided by log base a of b
this is for numbers that are greater
than zero and the bases
a and b are not equal to 1.
suppose a is equal to the constant e
the logarithm then becomes the natural
logarithm
and that's the form of the formula i'll
use in the video
recall the product rule of logarithms
log base b of the product x y
is equal to log base b of x plus
log base b of y all of the numbers are
greater than zero
and the base b is not equal to one
let's now tackle the original problem
we'll use the change of base formula on
each of the logarithms
the first logarithm transforms into the
natural log of the product bc
divided by the natural log of a the
second will transform
into the natural log of the product ac
divided by the natural log of b
the third logarithm will become the
natural log
of the product a b divided by the
natural log of c
we will now simplify each of these
fractions
for the first term we'll multiply it by
the natural log of a
divided by the natural log of a the
numerator becomes the natural log of
a and the denominator becomes the
natural log of a
plus the natural log of the product bc
we'll do a similar thing for the second
fraction we'll multiply it by the
natural log of b
divided by the natural log of b the
numerator becomes the natural log of b
and the denominator becomes the natural
log of b plus the natural log of the
product ac
the third term we'll multiply by the
natural log of c divided by the natural
log of c
the numerator becomes the natural log of
c and the denominator becomes the
natural log of c
plus the natural log of the product a b
we will now look at this denominator and
we'll use the product rule
we have a sum which we will convert into
the product
the natural log of a plus the natural
log of the product bc
will be equal to the natural log of abc
we do the same thing in the second
fraction the natural log of b
plus the natural log of the product ac
will be equal
to the natural log of the product abc
in the third fraction we have the
natural log of c plus the natural log of
the product a b
and this will become the natural log of
the product abc
now each of these three fractions have
the same denominator
the natural log of the product abc thus
we can sum them and sum the numerators
it becomes the natural log of a plus the
natural log of b
plus the natural log of c all over the
natural log
of the product abc we then
use the product rule one more time the
natural log of a
plus the natural log of b plus the
natural log of c is equal to the natural
log of the product abc
and this simplifies because we have the
natural log of the product abc
over the natural log of the product abc
and that's equal
to one and that's our answer
what a neat problem involving logarithms
thanks for making us one of the best
communities on youtube
see you soon on mind your decisions
where we solve the world's problems
one video at a time
you